Alpine Sprint Plone helm effort (#7)
plone/charts: SCENARIOS.md

> # Deployment Scenarious with Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Deployment scenarious with Kubernetes
```

> DRAFT/WIP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't see your scenario in this document, we would welcome a pull request.
```

> We identified different scenarios for deploying the Plone with Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We identified different scenarios for deploying Plone with Kubernetes.
```

This is not meant to be complete, but should work for 80% of the use cases.

> Other use-cases can build on top of these scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other use cases can build on top of these scenarios.
```

> The scenarious are written from simple to complex and are build on top of each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scenarious are written from simple to complex and build on top of each other.
```

## Scenario 1: Plone Classic UI using PostgreSQL

> ### Description

Reviewer: Avoid headings without content. In this case the description does not need a subheading, as it describes the parent heading.

```suggestion
```

Plone Classic UI with PostgreSQL is the simplest scenario.

> It uses a databse, stores the blobs in the database and uses the Classic UI, which is provided by the `plone-backend` container only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It uses a database, stores the blobs in the database, and uses Classic UI, which is provided by the `plone-backend` container.
```

> The image is used as-is, without any additional addons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The image is used as-is, without any additional add-ons.
```

### Infrastructure
`plone-backend` will be provided as a Deployment with at least two replicas.
A LoadBalancer service bundles the `plone-backend` pods.

The database is provided by a PostgreSQL StatefulSet with one replica.
It needs a PersistentVolumeClaim to store the data.

> The plone-backend pods are connecting to the PostgreSQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `plone-backend` pods connect to the PostgreSQL pod.
```

## Scenario 2: Plone with Volto using PostgreSQL and Routing capable Ingress

> ### Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Plone with Volto using PostgreSQL is the next step.

> Volto is the default Plone 6 Frontend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Volto is the default Plone 6 frontend.
```

> This scenario is the minimal default setup for a modern Plone 6 in Kubernetes with a routing-capable ingress controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This scenario is the minimal default setup for a modern Plone 6 site in Kubernetes with a routing-capable ingress controller.
```

It uses a PostgreSQL database and stores the blobs in the database.

> It provides the Plone Backend API server, which is run by the `plone-backend` image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It provides the Plone backend API server, which is run by the `plone-backend` image.
```

The Volto frontend is provided by the `plone-frontend` image.

> Both images are used as-is, without any additional addons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both images are used as-is, without any additional add-ons.
```

### Infrastructure
Additional to scenario 1, this scenario needs a `plone-frontend` pod.
`plone-frontend` will be provided as a Deployment with at least two replicas.
A LoadBalancer service bundles the `plone-frontend` pods.

> Also, it needs an ingress with HTTP routing capabilities, e.g. a Traefik ingress controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, it needs an ingress with HTTP routing capabilities, such as a Traefik ingress controller.
```

Kubernetes environments without such an ingress controller are covered by scenario 3.
The ingress controller will be configured to route the requests to the `plone-frontend` and `plone-backend` pods, dependent on the requests path.

## Scenario 2: Plone with Volto using PostgreSQL and Non-Routing capable Ingress

> ### Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Plone with Volto using PostgreSQL and Non-Routing capable Ingress is the same as scenario 2, but without the need for a routing-capable ingress controller.

### Infrastructure

> Additional to scenario 2 this scenario needs a `nginx` pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional to scenario 2 this scenario needs an `nginx` pod.
```

> The nginx will be configured to route the requests to the `plone-frontend` and `plone-backend` pods, dependent on the requests path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `nginx` pod will be configured to route the requests to the `plone-frontend` and `plone-backend` pods, depending on the requests path.
```
